Update Article styling criteria and split it into formatting and writing style rules (#3734)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Article_styling_criteria/Formatting/en.md

When marking articles with this, [comments](#comments) should accompany this to explain what content is outdated.

### Tagging articles

Tags help the website's search engine query articles better. Tags should be written in the same language as the article and include the English's list of tags, and prefer lowercase letters where applicable.

For example, an article called "Skinning tutorial" might include these tags:

```yaml
tags:
  - guide
  - how to
  - skins
```

### Translations without reviews

Sometimes, translations are added to the wiki without review from other native speakers of the language. In this case, the `no_native_review` mark is added to let future translators know that it may need to be checked again. For example:

```yaml
no_native_review: true
```

*Note to translators: Wiki maintainers will determine and apply this mark prior to merging.*

## Article naming

*See also: [Folder names](#folder-names) and [Titles](#titles)*

Article titles should be singular. See [Wikipedia's naming conventions article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Naming_conventions_(plurals) "Wikipedia") for more details.

> Article titles should match the folder name it is in (spaces may replace underscores (`_`) where appropriate). If the folder name changes, the article title should be changed to match it and vise versa. Some exceptions include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Article titles should match the folder name it is in (spaces may replace underscores (`_`) where appropriate). If the folder name changes, the article title should be changed to match it and vice versa. Some exceptions include:
```
small typo

- Contest articles - must use abbreviations, acronyms, or initialisms

> - Tournament articles - must use abbreviations, acronyms, or initialisms

Reviewer: consider changing to parantheses and not spaced hyphen (which should be en dash anyway `—`)

## Folder and file structure

### Folder names

*See also: [Article naming](#article-naming)*

Folder names must be in English and use sentence case. They should match their English article titles as well.

Folder names must only use these characters:

- uppercase and lowercase letters
- numbers
- underscores (`_`)
- exclamation marks (`!`)

#### Percent encoding characters

Folder names must not use characters that require percent encoding. Those characters may include, but are not limited to:

> - spaces
>   - all spaces must be changed to underscores (`_`)
> - apostrophes (`'`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- spaces
  - all spaces must be changed to underscores (`_`)
- apostrophes (`'`)
- hyphens
```

Author: Looking at this section again, I am going to remove this section instead because the higher section above already lists the characters that are acceptable. However, I do think the hyphen is fine to use (although it probably wouldn't be used often at all).

### Captions

Images are automatically given captions on the website if they fulfill these conditions:

1. The image is by itself.
2. The image is not inside a heading.
3. The image has title text.

Captions are assumed via the title text, which must be in plain text. Images with captions are also centred with the image on the website.

### Max image width

The website's max image width is the width of the article body. Images should be no wider than 800 pixels.

### Annotating images

When annotating images, use *Exo 2 light*. For Chinese, Korean, Japanese characters, use *Microsoft YaHei*.

Annotating images should be avoided, as it is difficult for translators (and other editors) to edit them.

#### Translating annotated images

When translating annotated images, the localised image version must be placed in the same directory as the original version (i.e. the English version). The filename of a localised image version must start with the original version's name, followed by a hyphen, followed by the locale name (in capital letters). For example:

- `hardrock_mod_vs_easy_mod.jpg` (i.e. in English)
- `hardrock_mod_vs_easy_mod-DE.jpg` (i.e. in German)

> - `hardrock_mod_vs_easy_mod-ZH-TW.jpg` (i.e. in Traditional Chinese)

Reviewer 2: image names should have hyphens not underscores as its against stated above criteria ¯\_(ツ)_/¯

| `be.md` | Belarusian | Беларуская мова |
| `bg.md` | Bulgarian | Български |
| `cs.md` | Czech | Česky |
| `da.md` | Danish | Dansk |
| `de.md` | German | Deutsch |
| `gr.md` | Greek | Ελληνικά |
| `es.md` | Spanish | Español |
| `fi.md` | Finnish | Suomi |
| `fr.md` | French | Français |
| `hu.md` | Hungarian | Magyar |
| `id.md` | Indonesian | Bahasa Indonesia |
| `it.md` | Italian | Italiano |
| `ja.md` | Japanese | 日本語 |
| `ko.md` | Korean | 한국어 |
| `nl.md` | Dutch | Nederlands |
| `no.md` | Norwegian | Norsk |
| `pl.md` | Polish | Polski |
| `pt.md` | Portuguese | Português |
| `pt-br.md` | Brazilian Portuguese | Português (Brasil) |
| `ro.md` | Romanian | Română |
| `ru.md` | Russian | Русский |
| `sk.md` | Slovak | Slovenčina |
| `sv.md` | Swedish | Svenska |
| `th.md` | Thai | ไทย |
| `tr.md` | Turkish | Türkçe |
| `uk.md` | Ukrainian | Українська мова |
| `vi.md` | Vietnamese | Tiếng Việt |
| `zh.md` | Chinese (Simplified) | 简体中文 |
| `zh-tw.md` | Traditional Chinese (Taiwan) | 繁體中文（台灣） |

*Note: The website will give readers their selected language's version of an article. If it is not available, the English version will be given.*

> If a language is not listed above, append `?locale={langcode}` to the URL (e.g. `https://osu.ppy.sh/help/wiki/Welcome?locale=zh`). You can also help translate the [osu-web via Crowdin](https://crowdin.com/project/osu-web). If you need help with translating or want to discuss translating decisions, discuss in the [osu!dev Discord](https://discord.gg/ppy) (`#osu-web` channel).

Reviewer 3: this section is outdated, because we now have language code as part of the URI: `https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Rules`, and, therefore, it takes precedence over the web site's active language

### Content parity

Translations are subject to strict content parity with their English article, in the sense that they must have the same message, regardless of grammar and syntax. Any changes to the translations' meanings must be accompanied by equivalent changes to the English article.

> There are some cases where the content is allowed to differ:

Reviewer 3: I'd like to add subcommunity-specific explanations, such as [this paragraph in Support Team](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/blob/master/wiki/People/The_Team/Support_Team/ru.md#L19), which says `If you need help, open a thread in one of these forums, and you'll be contacted. If you need help in Russian, there's a dedicated thread in the Russian subforum called «...».`

- Articles originally written in a language other than English (in this case, English should act as the translation)
- Explanations of English words that are common terms in the osu! community
- External links
- Tags

## Front matter

Front matter must be placed at the very top of the file. It is written in [YAML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML#Example "YAML Wikipedia article") and describes additional information about the article. This must be surrounded by three hyphens (`---`) on the lines above and below it, and an empty line must follow it before the title heading.

### Articles that need help

The `needs_cleanup` tag may be added to articles that need rewriting or formatting help. It is also acceptable to open an issue on GitHub for this purpose. This tag must be written as shown below:

```yaml
needs_cleanup: true
```

When adding this tag to an article, [comments](#comments) should also be added to explain what needs to be done to remove the tag.

> *Notice to translators: Avoid translating English articles with this tag. In addition to this, this tag should be added when the translation needs its own clean up.*

Reviewer 3: is it a notice or a note? also, please put it at the beginning of the sub-subsection

### Outdated articles

*Notice to translators: Avoid translating English articles with this tag.*

Translated articles that are outdated must use the `outdated` tag when the English variant is updated. English articles may also become outdated when the content they contain is misleading or no longer relevant. This tag must be written as shown below:

```yaml
outdated: true
```

> *Notice to translators: If the English article has this tag, the translation must also have this tag.*

Reviewer 3: should probably be merged with the first not(ic?)e

When adding this tag to an article, [comments](#comments) should also be added to explain what needs to be updated to remove the tag.

### Tagging articles

> Tags help the website's search engine query articles better. Tags should be written in the same language as the article and include the English's list of tags. Tags should use lowercase letters where applicable.

Reviewer 3: `Enslish's` is... odd
```suggestion
Tags help the website's search engine query articles better. Tags should be written in the same language as the article and include the original list of tags. Tags should use lowercase letters where applicable.
```

> For example, an article called "Skinning tutorial" might include the following tags:

Reviewer 3: might want to pick another example, since the skinning tutorial is dead

```yaml
tags:
  - guide
  - how to
  - skins
```

### Translations without reviews

Sometimes, translations are added to the wiki without review from other native speakers of the language. In this case, the `no_native_review` mark is added to let future translators know that it may need to be checked again. This tag must be written as shown below:

```yaml
no_native_review: true
```

> *Note to translators: Wiki maintainers will determine and apply this mark prior to merging.*

Reviewer 3: should go to the beginning of a sub-subsection

Redirects must be updated to have the ambiguous keyword(s) redirect to the disambiguation article.

## HTML

HTML must not be used, with exception for [comments](#comments). The structure of the article must be redone if HTML is used.

### Comments

HTML comments should be used for marking to-dos, but may also be used to annotate text. They should be on their own line, but can be placed inline in a paragraph. If placed inline, the start of the comment must not have a space.

Bad example:

```markdown
HTML comments <!-- TODO explain HTML comments --> should be used for marking to-dos or annotate text.
```

Good example:

```markdown
HTML comments<!-- TODO explain HTML comments --> should be used for marking to-dos or annotate text.
```

## Editing

### End of line sequence

*Caution: Uploading Markdown files using `CRLF` (carriage return and line feed) via GitHub will result in those files using `CRLF`. To prevent this, set the line ending to `LF` (line feed) before uploading.*

Markdown files must be checked in using the `LF` end of line sequence.

### Escaping

> *Caution: Titles are parsed as plain text and must not be escaped.*

Reviewer 3: this probably should be the second sentence, otherwise it makes it look like both sentences are about titles (probably due to short sentences)

Hatnotes must be italicised and be placed immediately after the heading. If multiple hatnotes are used, they must be on the same paragraph separated with a line break.

### Main page

*Main page* hatnotes direct a reader to the main article of the topic. When this hatnote is used, it implies that the section it is on is a summary of what the linked page is about. This hatnote should have only one link, but may use more if needed. These must be formatted as follows:

```markdown
*Main page: {article}*

*Main pages: {article} and {article}*
```

### See also

*See also* hatnotes suggest to readers other points of interest from a given article or section. These must be formatted as follows:

```markdown
*See also: {article}*

*See also: {article} and {article}*
```

### For see

*For see* hatnotes are similar to *see also* hatnotes, but are generally more descriptive and direct. This hatnote should have only one link, but may use more if needed. These must be formatted as follows:

```markdown
*For {description}, see: {article}`*

*For {description}, see: {article} and {article}`*
```

### Not to be confused with

> *Not to be confused with* hatnotes help distinguish ambiguous or misunderstood article titles or sections. This hatnote should have only one link, but may use more if needed. These must be formatted as follows:

Reviewer 3: otherwise it says "it should use one link, but not really"

```suggestion
*Not to be confused with* hatnotes help distinguish ambiguous or misunderstood article titles or sections. This hatnote may use more than one link if necessary. These must be formatted as follows:
```

Author: good point, will apply similar to Main page and copy over to For see

```markdown
*Not to be confused with {article}.*

*Not to be confused with {article} or {article}.*
```

### For other uses

> *For other uses* hatnotes are similar to *not to be confused with* hatnotes, but links directly to the disambiguation article. This hatnote must only link to the disambiguation article. These must be formatted as follows:

Reviewer 3: think it'd be a good rule to put one of these at the top of every article a specific disambiguation page links to

Author: Alright, I'm thinking to add this to the **Disambiguation articles** section:
```
Articles linked from a disambiguation article must have a [For other uses](#for-other-uses) hatnote.
```

Reviewer 3: that is most definitely it

```markdown
*For other uses, see {disambiguation article}.*
```

## Notice

*Not to be confused with [Hatnote](#hatnote).*

A notice should be placed where appropriate in a section, but must start off the paragraph and use italics. Notices may contain bolding where appropriate, but should be kept to a minimum. Notices must be written as complete sentences. Thus, unlike most [hatnotes](#hatnotes), must use a full stop (`.`) or an exclamation mark (`!`) if appropriate. Anything within the same paragraph of a notice must also be italicised. These must be formatted as follows:

```markdown
*Note: {note}.*

*Notice: {notice}.*

*Caution: {caution}.*

*Warning: {warning}.*
```

- `Note` should be used for factual or trivial details.
- `Notice` should be used for reminders or to draw attention to something that the reader should be made aware of.
- `Caution` should be used to warn the reader to avoid unintended consequences.
- `Warning` should be used to warn the reader that action may be taken against them.

> ### Notice to

Reviewer 3: I think it's very, very specific and should be deprecated in favor of general notes/notices/whatever, since the target audience is already reading the article (and these who find it irrelevant may just skip it like any other note)

Preformatted text (also known as code blocks) must be fenced using three grave marks. They should set the language identifier for syntax highlighting.

## Links

There are two types of links: inline and reference. Inline has two styles.

The following is an example of both inline styles:

```markdown
[Game Modifiers](/wiki/Game_Modifiers)

<https://osu.ppy.sh/home>
```

The following is an example of the reference style:

```markdown
[Game Modifiers][game mods link]

[game mods link]: /wiki/Game_Modifiers
```

---

Links must use the inline style if they are only referenced once. The inline angle brackets style should be avoided. References to reference links must be placed at the bottom of the article.

### Internal links

*Note: Internal links refer to links that stay inside the `https://osu.ppy.sh/` domain.*

#### Wiki links

All links that point to an wiki article should start with `/wiki/` followed by the path to get to the article you are targeting. Relative links may also be used. Some examples include the following:

```markdown
[FAQ](/wiki/FAQ)
[pippi](/wiki/Mascots#-pippi)
```

---

Wiki links must not use redirects.

---

> Wiki links must not use a trailing forward slash (`/`).

Reviewer 3: I think there's no need in separating these and you can just merge them into one small paragraph and add a good/bad example for a redirect or its absence (may use `ASC` as an example, even), otherwise the section looks a bit bloated

*Notice: You will need a decent internet connection to connect to Bancho and submit scores.*

*Caution: This button does not ask for confirmation!*

*Warning: Having more than one osu! user account at any time is an infringement against the [osu! rules](/wiki/Rules)!*
```

### Notice to

Notice to are notices but target specific readers. They are formatted similarly as [notices](#notice), but also include the word `to` after the notice keyword, then followed with a brief description of the target readers. These must be formatted as:

```markdown
*Note to {target}: {note}.*

*Notice to {target}: {notice}.*

*Caution to {target}: {caution}.*

*Warning to {target}: {warning}.*
```

For example:

```markdown
*Notice to API users: In osu!catch, droplets are marked as `count50` and missed droplets as `countkatu`.*
```

## Emphasising

### Bold

Bolding single words should be avoided. Prefer bolding phrases, as it may be hard to notice the bolding of a single word. Bold must use double asterisks (`**`).

### Italics

Italics should be used only when naming a video game or the name of a work. osu!—the game—is exempt from this. Italics must use single asterisks (`*`).

## Headings

> All headings must use sentence case.

Author: I'd rather not bold certain or specific things in the ASC. Most of it is already not bolded and this line isn't any more important than the other stuff within this and its sub-sections.

*Caution: Titles are parsed as plain text. They must not be escaped.*

The first heading in all articles must be a level 1 heading, being the article's title. All headings afterwards must be [section headings](#sections). Titles must not contain formatting, links, or images.

The title heading must be on the first line, unless [front matter](#front-matter) is being used. If that is the case, the title heading must go after it and have an empty line before the title heading.

### Sections

Section headings must use levels 2 to 5. The section heading proceeding the [title heading](#titles) must be a level 2 heading. Unlike titles, section headings may have small image icons.

Section headings must not skip a heading level (i.e. do not go from a level 2 heading to a level 4 heading) and must not contain formatting or links.

*Notice: On the website, heading levels 4 and 5 will not appear in the table of contents. They cannot be linked to directly either.*

## Lists

Lists should not go over 4 levels of indentation and should not have an empty line in between each item.

For nested lists, make sure that the bullets or numbers align with the item content of their parent lists.

> Bad example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an incorrect use (bad example):
```
```suggestion
### Bad example
```

```markdown
1. Fly a kite
  - Don't fly a kite if it's raining
```

> Good example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is correct use (good example):
```
```suggestion
### Good example
```

```markdown
1. Fly a kite
   - Don't fly a kite if it's raining
```

### Bulleted

> Bulleted lists must use hyphens (`-`). These must then be followed by one space. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bulleted lists must use hyphens (`-`). These must then be followed by one space. (Example shown below.)
```

```markdown
- osu!standard
  - Hit circle
    - Combo number
    - Approach circle
  - Slider
    - Hit circles
    - Slider body
    - Slider ticks
  - Spinner
- osu!taiko
```

### Numbered

The numbers in a numbered list must be incremented to represent their step.

```markdown
1. Download the osu! installer.
2. Run the installer.
   1. To change the installation location, click the text underneath the progression bar.
   2. The installer will prompt for a new location, choose the installation folder.
3. osu! will start up once installation is complete.
4. Sign in.
```

### Mixed

Combining both bulleted and numbered lists should be done sparingly.

```markdown
1. Download a skin from the forums.
2. Load the skin file into osu!.
   - If the file is a `.zip`, unzip it and move the contents into the `Skins/` folder (found in your osu! installation folder).
   - If the file is a `.osk`, open it on your desktop or drag-and-drop it into the game client.
3. Open osu!, if it is not opened, and select the skin in the options.
   - This may have been completed if you opened the `.osk` file or drag-and-dropped it into the game client.
```

## Code

> The markup for code is a grave mark (`` ` ``). To put grave marks in code, use double grave marks instead. If the grave mark is at the start or end, pad it with 1 space. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The markup for code is a grave mark (`` ` ``). To put grave marks in code, use double grave marks instead. If the grave mark is at the start or end, pad it with one space. For example:
```

```markdown
`` ` ``
`` `Space` ``
```

### Keyboard keys

*Notice: When denoting the letter itself, and not the keyboard key, use quotation marks instead.*

When representing keyboard keys, use capital letters for single characters and title case for modifiers. Use the plus symbol (`+`) (without code) to represent key combinations. For example:

```markdown
pippi is spelt with a lowercase "p" like peppy.

Press `Ctrl` + `O` to open the open dialog.
```

When representing a space or the spacebar, use `` `Space` ``.

### Button and menu text

When copying the text from a menu or button, the letter casing should be copied as it appears. For example:

```markdown
The `osu!direct` button is visible in the main menu on the right side, if you have an active osu!supporter tag.
```

### Folder and directory names

> When copying the name of a folder or directory, the letter casing should be copied as it appears, but prefer lowercased paths when possible. Directory paths must not be absolute (i.e. do not start the directory name from the drive letter or from the root folder). For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When copying the name of a folder or directory, the letter casing should be copied as it appears, but prefer lowercased paths when possible. Directory paths must not be absolute (i.e. do not start the directory name from the drive letter or from the root folder). (Example shown below.)
```

```markdown
osu! is installed in the `AppData/Local` folder by default, unless specified otherwise during installation.
```

### Keywords and commands

> When copying a keyword or command, the letter casing should be copied as it appears or as someone normally would type it as (prefer lowercase if applicable). For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When copying a keyword or command, the letter casing should be copied as it appears or as someone normally would type it as (prefer lowercase if applicable):
```

```markdown
As of now, the `Name` and `Author` commands in the skin configuration file (`skin.ini`) does nothing.
```

### File names

> When copying the name of a file, the letter casing should be copied as it appears.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When copying the name of a file, the letter casing should be copied as it appears:
```

```markdown
To play osu!, double click the `osu!.exe` icon.
```

### File extensions

*Notice: File formats (not to be confused with file extensions) must be written in capital letters without the prefixed fullstop (`.`).*

> File extensions must be prefixed with a fullstop (`.`) and be followed by the file extension in lowercase letters. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
File extensions must be prefixed with a fullstop (`.`) and be followed by the file extension in lowercase letters. (Example shown below.)
```

```markdown
The JPG (or JPEG) file format has the `.jpg` (or `.jpeg`) extension.
```

### Chat channels

> When copying the name of a chat channel, start it with a hash (`#`), followed by the channel name in lowercase letters. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When copying the name of a chat channel, start it with a hash (`#`), followed by the channel name in lowercase letters. (Example shown below.)
```

```markdown
`#lobby` is where you can advertise your multi room.
```

## Preformatted text (code blocks)

*Notice: Syntax highlighting for preformatted text is not implemented on the website yet.*

Preformatted text (also known as code blocks) must be fenced using three grave marks. They should set the language identifier for syntax highlighting.

## Links

> There are two types of links: inline and reference. Inline has two styles. Examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two types of links: inline and reference. Inline has two styles. (Examples shown below.)
```

> **Inline style:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Inline style
```

```markdown
[Game Modifiers](/wiki/Game_Modifiers)

<https://osu.ppy.sh/home>
```

> **Reference style:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Reference style:
```

```markdown
[Game Modifiers][game mods link]

[game mods link]: /wiki/Game_Modifiers
```

Links must use the inline style if they are only referenced once. The inline angle brackets style should be avoided. References to reference links must be placed at the bottom of the article.

### Internal links

*Note: Internal links refer to links that stay inside the `https://osu.ppy.sh/` domain.*

#### Wiki links

> All links that point to an osu! wiki article should start with `/wiki/` followed by the path to get to the article you are targeting. Relative links may also be used. Some examples include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All links that point to an osu! wiki article should start with `/wiki/` followed by the path to get to the article you are targeting. Relative links may also be used. Some examples include the following:
```

```markdown
[FAQ](/wiki/FAQ)
[pippi](/wiki/Mascots#-pippi)
```

---

Wiki links must not use redirects.

---

Wiki links must not use a trailing forward slash (`/`).

> Bad examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bad examples include the following:
```

```markdown
[Developers](/wiki/Developers/)
[Developers](/wiki/Developers/#game-client-developers)
```

> Good examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Good examples include the following:
```
